URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/about/about-us/

About Us - Fertility Plus - Harley Street Fertility Clinic
Our ethos - personalised one-to-one care
Fertility Plus is a unique, modern and bespoke private fertility service of the highest quality, provided in heart of London, offering a wholesome and holistic approach to treatment.
The ethos of Fertility Plus care is to provide a personalised and individual approach to each patient in the most ﬂexible way. This is a unique concept in both private practice and NHS where patients see different doctors every visit.
We passionately believe in the concept of the same doctor throughout the entire journey and we aim to achieve this with every patient*
, making treatment smooth and seamless for all our patients. Importantly having two consultants working together also means that we can offer independent second opinions without any additional costs.
*whilst we aim to achieve this for every patient it may not always be possible, eg in the case of emergencies, annual leave etc
Why choose Fertility Plus?
Our highly experienced fertility experts work with state-of-the-art medical equipment.
Unique approach of one-to-one care, meaning the same doctor sees you every time, all of the time.
Fixed price packages on all our treatments, so you won’t be suprised by any hidden costs along the way.
One of the important features of our care is you being able to talk to your Consultant personally, on their mobile, whilst undergoing your fertility treatment cycles. We believe this is unique among existing Harley Street practices.
We offer appropriate advice, investigations, treatments and support, in a non-judgmental fashion, both to couples and single women. Moreover, we have adopted clear price packages which are transparent, fair and defy the open-wallet policies which many other service providers in London offer.
Having a baby is an emotional and a very special event. This is recognised and appreciated by Mr. Anil Gudi and Mr. Amit Shah, who are both well established NHS Consultants.
Assisted conception procedures are carried out by the named consultant at the London Women’s Clinic while consultations and monitoring are located at Fertility Plus, 92 Harley Street, London.
Share this page:
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Call now on: +44 800 022 6038
Send us a message
info@fertilityplus.org.uk
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.