URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/services/ivf-icsi/what-is-ivf-icsi/

IVF & ICSI Treatment - Fertility Plus - Harley Street Fertility Clinic
IVF & ICSI
Select Service
Fertility Assessment
Couples Fertility Test
Female Fertility Testing
3D/4D Ovarian Reserve Testing Assessment
Ovarian Reserve Testing
HyCoSy
Fallopian Tube Testing
Male Fertility Test
Hormone Blood Test
Cycle Monitoring
Clomid & Monitoring
FSH & Monitoring
Letrozole & Monitoring
Natural Cycle Monitoring
Ovulation Induction, Monitoring & Test
Tamoxifen & Monitoring
IVF & ICSI
What is IVF & ICSI?
IVF & ICSI Treatment Step
IVF/ICSI Additional Procedures
IVF/ICSI Risks
IVF/ICSI Treatment Locations
IVF/ICSI Treatment Preparation
IVF/ICSI Treatment Protocol
IUI
What is IUI Treatment?
IUI Success Rates
IUI risks
Natural vs Stimulated IUI
IUI FAQS
Additional Tests
Endometrium tests  (ERA/EMMA and ALICE)
Fertility Preservation
Sperm Freezing
Egg Freezing
Embryo Screening
Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis
Pre-implantation Genetic Screening
Embryo Freezing
Embryo Freezing
Endometriosis & PCOS
PCOS Management
Endometriosis Treatment & Management
Donor Treatments
Donor Sperm Treatment
Donor Egg Treatment
Surrogacy
Instituto Bernabéu, Spain
What is IVF & ICSI?
In vitro fertilisation (IVF) was introduced 30 years ago and since then millions of children have been born thanks to this unique use of science.
Originally developed to assist conception in women who have blocked or damaged fallopian tubes, IVF was so successful it is now being used to treat other causes of infertility, such as sperm disorders, unexplained infertility and endometriosis.
What Is IVF?
In vitro fertilisation (IVF) is a process by which an egg is fertilised by sperm outside the body. It literally means “fertilisation in glass”. Once fertilised, the embryos are monitored and transferred back into the uterus at the correct time.
Who Is IVF For?
IVF is generally considered when there is:
longstanding infertility
blocked fallopian tubes
evidence of endometriosis
unexplained infertility
How Does IVF Work?
IVF fertility treatment is divided into the following stages:
Investigation and assessment
Ovarian stimulation
Egg collection
Fertilisation
Embryology and embryo transfer
View our page for more information on
how IVF works.
How Do You Feel During IVF Stimulation?
When undertaking IVF fertility treatment, you often feel discomfort, hormonal, mood swings and hot flashes and as the days of stimulation advance, you are likely to feel distended. Depending on how many follicles grow, you may feel more distended and increase discomfort in the lower abdomen.
How Long Does IVF Take?
The stimulation of the ovaries which includes daily injections usually takes between 10 and 15 days. This includes daily injections and is followed by oocyte (egg) retrieval. If a fresh transfer is planned then in approximately three weeks the embryos are transferred inside the womb. In a further two weeks, the results would be available.
If a frozen cycle is planned then after three weeks from the start of stimulation, embryos are frozen and can be replaced after preparation which may take a further 6 to 8 weeks.
Are IVF Pregnancies High Risk?
IVF pregnancies carry the same risk of miscarriage and intervention at birth as naturally conceived pregnancies. The challenges of IVF are usually that it is performed in older women and in women who may have other medical conditions. The impact of age, as well as other conditions, may make the pregnancy higher risk, not the IVF treatment itself. Also, in cases where the weight of the female is higher, there is a higher risk of diabetes and hypertension.
There are risks associated with the treatment itself, view our page on
IVF/ICSI risks.
How Much Does IVF Cost?
At Fertility Plus, we have carefully curated fixed price treatment packages on all our treatments, so you won’t be surprised by any hidden costs along the way. View our page on
IVF costs here.
What Is ICSI?
ICSI is Intra cytoplasmic sperm injection. This is a procedure in which a single motile sperm is injected into the egg. In this procedure, the eggs are studied, surrounding cells separated and the maturity of the egg is confirmed prior to injecting the egg with the sperm.
ICSI is often recommended if other problems with the sperm have been identified that:
Prevent sperm binding to the egg
Cause failure to fertilise or an unexpectedly low fertilisation rate (below 20%)
Have been collected from the testicles or epididymis (TESA/PESA)
Who Is ICSI Treatment For?
ICSI treatment is usually offered when:
There is very low sperm count motility or morphology
There is previous evidence of lower fertilisation or where no fertilisation has happened between the eggs and the sperm.
Evidence of longstanding infertility or in cases where the sperm DNA fragmentation is high.
In cases of older women and in cases of endometriosis
How Does ICSI Work?
ICSI is the procedure where eggs are studied slightly better, cells around the eggs are removed which is called stripping and the egg is identified as being mature.  A single motile sperm is injected right into the egg with a very small needle
How Do You Feel During ICSI Stimulation?
When undergoing ICSI treatment, the woman often feels no different to IVF, where she may feel discomfort, hormonal, mood swings and hot flashes and as the days of stimulation advance likely to feel distended. Depending on how many follicles grow there may be an increasing feeling of being distended and increasing discomfort in the lower abdomen.
How Long Does ICSI Take?
The stimulation of the ovaries includes daily injections usually takes between 10 and 15 days and is followed by oocyte (egg) retrieval. Then in approximately three weeks, the embryo is transferred inside the womb. In a further two weeks, the results would be available.
Are ICSI Pregnancies High Risk?
ICSI pregnancies are not considered high risk, however, in cases of extremely poor sperm, the progress to a blastocyst stage may be lower. There are risks associated with the treatment itself, view our page on
IVF/ICSI risks
.
How Much Does ICSI Treatment Cost?
At Fertility Plus, we have carefully curated fixed price treatment packages We offer fixed price packages on all our treatments, so you won’t be surprised by any hidden costs along the way. View our
ICSI costs here
.
What Is The Difference Between IVF And ICSI?
The key difference between IVF and ICSI is that IVF is where the eggs which are collected are mixed with washed and prepared sperm and the process of fertilisation is left to nature. All the eggs that are obtained are mixed with the sperm.
By comparison, ICSI is done by injecting a single sperm into the mature egg. Eggs that are retrieved may be either be mature or immature, however, ICSI can only be done with eggs that are mature, hence immature eggs are discarded. Thus ICSI is done on a fewer number of eggs.
Can ICSI Be Done Without IVF?
IVF and ICSI are two different procedures but the method of egg retrieval is the same. ICSI cannot be undertaken without the egg retrieval process.
When To Use IVF And ICSI
IVF is recommended when there is:
longstanding infertility
blocked tubes
evidence of endometriosis
unexplained infertility
By comparison, ICSI is recommended when there is:
low sperm count
increased age of the woman
evidence of endometriosis
previous failure of IVF to fertilise the eggs
IVF And ICSI Success Rates
The success rates of IVF and ICSI are very similar when chosen for the right indication. See our page on
success rates
.
Share this page:
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Send us a message
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.