URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/services/embryo-screening/pre-implantation-genetic-diagnosis/

Pre-implantation Embryo Screening – Fertility Plus - Harley Street Fertility Clinic
Embryo Screening
Select Service
Fertility Assessment
Couples Fertility Test
Female Fertility Testing
3D/4D Ovarian Reserve Testing Assessment
Ovarian Reserve Testing
HyCoSy
Fallopian Tube Testing
Male Fertility Test
Hormone Blood Test
Cycle Monitoring
Clomid & Monitoring
FSH & Monitoring
Letrozole & Monitoring
Natural Cycle Monitoring
Ovulation Induction, Monitoring & Test
Tamoxifen & Monitoring
IVF & ICSI
What is IVF & ICSI?
IVF & ICSI Treatment Step
IVF/ICSI Additional Procedures
IVF/ICSI Risks
IVF/ICSI Treatment Locations
IVF/ICSI Treatment Preparation
IVF/ICSI Treatment Protocol
IUI
What is IUI Treatment?
IUI Success Rates
IUI risks
Natural vs Stimulated IUI
IUI FAQS
Additional Tests
Endometrium tests  (ERA/EMMA and ALICE)
Fertility Preservation
Sperm Freezing
Egg Freezing
Embryo Screening
Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis
Pre-implantation Genetic Screening
Embryo Freezing
Embryo Freezing
Endometriosis & PCOS
PCOS Management
Endometriosis Treatment & Management
Donor Treatments
Donor Sperm Treatment
Donor Egg Treatment
Surrogacy
Instituto Bernabéu, Spain
Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis
Pre-implantation Genetic Testing(PGT) is a revolutionary prenatal testing technique. Designed primarily for couples at a significant risk of passing inherited diseases to their offspring, PGT allows for the identification and prevention of genetic disorders in the very early stages of pregnancy.
PGT Benefits: A Safe Choice for Families
Choosing PGT offers couples the peace of mind by significantly reducing the stresses associated with terminations or miscarriages due to genetic abnormalities. This early detection method ensures a safer and more controlled pregnancy journey.
Addressing Chromosome Abnormalities with PGT
Chromosome abnormalities are common genetic disorders that often result in reproductive issues, congenital malformations, and mental retardation. These abnormalities can either be due to an irregular number of chromosomes or a structural defect in one or more chromosomes. Pre-implantation genetic testing for monogenic or single-gene disorders (PGT-M) can currently be used to identify over 1,700 genetic conditions and is a powerful tool within the PGT process that is instrumental in identifying and addressing these chromosome-related concerns.
Specialised PGT Screening for Thalassemia & Sickle Cell
Our clinic specialises in the prevention of Thalassemia and Sickle Cell diseases through the use of PGT. With a high success rate, this focused genetic screening allows prospective parents to plan confidently for a healthy pregnancy.
Prior to commencing treatment, we urge all couples to undergo comprehensive genetic
fertility counselling
to understand the implications and outcomes of the screening process.
Expert PGT Treatment at Fertility Plus
Fertility Plus is proud to offer advanced PGT-M treatments administered by our experienced and
reputable fertility specialists
. Operating out of the renowned Care Fertility, our dedicated team is here to guide and support you through every step of your fertility journey.
Schedule Your Consultation Today
We understand that deciding to undergo PGT screening is a significant decision. At Fertility Plus, we’re committed to providing you with the knowledge, care, and support needed to make this journey as smooth and reassuring as possible.
Contact us today
to schedule your personalised consultation and let us help you start your family with confidence.
Share this page:
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Send us a message
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.