URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/services/iui/iui-success-rates/

IUI Success Rates - Fertility Plus - Harley Street Fertility Clinic
IUI
Select Service
Fertility Assessment
Couples Fertility Test
Female Fertility Testing
3D/4D Ovarian Reserve Testing Assessment
Ovarian Reserve Testing
HyCoSy
Fallopian Tube Testing
Male Fertility Test
Hormone Blood Test
Cycle Monitoring
Clomid & Monitoring
FSH & Monitoring
Letrozole & Monitoring
Natural Cycle Monitoring
Ovulation Induction, Monitoring & Test
Tamoxifen & Monitoring
IVF & ICSI
What is IVF & ICSI?
IVF & ICSI Treatment Step
IVF/ICSI Additional Procedures
IVF/ICSI Risks
IVF/ICSI Treatment Locations
IVF/ICSI Treatment Preparation
IVF/ICSI Treatment Protocol
IUI
What is IUI Treatment?
IUI Success Rates
IUI risks
Natural vs Stimulated IUI
IUI FAQS
Additional Tests
Endometrium tests  (ERA/EMMA and ALICE)
Fertility Preservation
Sperm Freezing
Egg Freezing
Embryo Screening
Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis
Pre-implantation Genetic Screening
Embryo Freezing
Embryo Freezing
Endometriosis & PCOS
PCOS Management
Endometriosis Treatment & Management
Donor Treatments
Donor Sperm Treatment
Donor Egg Treatment
Surrogacy
Instituto Bernabéu, Spain
IUI Success Rates
What Are The IUI Success Rates?
IUI success rates vary. In heterosexual couples, an IUI success rate is between 10 and 15% per cycle under the age of 35, between 36-39 the IUI success rate is approx. 10%. By the age of 40, the success rates with IUI vary declining with age to around 6-7%.
How Successful Is IUI On First Try?
The success rates of IUI vary. IUI in heterosexual couples under the age of 35, achieve a success rate between 10 and 15% per cycle, between 36 and 39 it is approximately 10%. Over the age of 40, the success rates with IUIvary with declining age from around 6-7%
Does The Success Rate Decrease With Each IUI?
Intrauterine insemination seemed to be successful between the third and the sixth treatment cycle. Beyond the sixth treatment cycle the chances of insemination being successful steadily declines.
Is There A Way To Increase The Chances Of IUI Success?
There are limitations to how the success rate of intrauterine insemination can be increased. The following factors can be considered:
Age: This continues to be the best indicator of success, younger women have higher success rates.
Follicle count: The higher the number of follicles could improve the chances of IUI though there is a risk of twins and triplets.
No of motile sperm: More than 5 million-10 million motile sperm also increase the chances of intrauterine insemination.
Sperm quality: Sperm with lower DNA fragmentation rate also have a better chance of success in intrauterine insemination.
Gynaecological factors: Presence of tube blocks or endometriosis reduces the chances of IUI success.
Is IVF More Successful Than IUI?
Intrauterine insemination (IUI) is less successful than
IVF treatment
. IVF operates on the logic that there are more follicles that are growing, more eggs may be available and a selection of embryos may be produced. That choice of embryos allows IVF to be more successful. Over the age of 44, intrauterine insemination and IVF seemed to have the same chance of success of less than 2% .
Share this page:
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Send us a message
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.