URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/about/our-team/

Fertility Specialists London– Fertility Plus - Harley Street Fertility Clinic
Meet Our Fertility Specialists
Fertility Plus practice is run by a team of consultants and supported by a broader team of medical experts:
Mr. Anil Gudi
Mr. Gudi qualiﬁed for his medical degree in 1990. He was admitted as a full member of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists in 1999 and became qualiﬁed as a Consultant Gynaecologist in 2005.
He trained in the ﬁeld of fertility medicine and carried out extensive research at Bombay Hospital in India and the Homerton Hospital in London. Mr Gudi was the lead at Homerton Fertility Centre from 2008 to 2020, where he led the team and was instrumental, along with Mr Shah, to raise the centre to become one of the largest fertility centres in London.
In his 12year tenure at Homerton, Mr Gudi and his team, completed multiple research projects, published in more than 100 publications and created an internationally acclaimed teaching and training centre. Since stepping down from his post, Mr Gudi has left the Homerton fertility centre and dedicates his time to private practice.
He specialises in assisted conception techniques, fertility preserving, keyhole surgeries, endometriosis and all aspects of fertility treatments including a new concept of chasing the Antral follicle for poor responders. He has done extensive research in polycystic ovarian syndrome in the UK and in the asian population in India.
In the past few years he has demonstrated new challenging techniques in treating women with multiple failed cycles, genetic screening of embryos and pregnancies through egg freezing. He has been instrumental in introducing new stimulation protocols and tailoring treatments speciﬁc to each patient.
Mr. Amit Shah
Mr. Shah qualiﬁed for his medical degree in 1988 and achieved his Obstetrics and Gynaecology Masters degree in 1991. He was admitted as a full member of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists in 2004. He has since practiced as a Consultant and Clinical Lead at the Homerton Fertility Centre where he established
one of the most successful IVF clinics, providing excellent patient care alongside a first class junior doctor training programme.
After 25 years of commitment to the NHS, Mr Shah now works exclusively privately and remains involved with research and development of science.
He was invited to
the fellowship at the RCOG in 2016.
Mr Shah trained as a fertility specialist in India, as well as the UK, and has since practiced in the USA, Germany and the UK.
He has a major interest in treating egg donor IVF, surrogacy and sperm donation treatments in addition to fertility treatments and fertility preserving surgeries, including treatment of endometriosis and assisted conception and egg freezing.
He has introduced challenging new techniques in egg freezing and in genetic screening of embryos. Using extensive technology he has been able to identify complex causes of failure of fertility treatments and improve success rates.
Dr Nisha Thakre
Dr Thakre qualiﬁed for her medical degree in 2008 and Master degree in Obstetrics and Gynaecolgy in 2012.  She is registered with GMC and was admitted as a full member of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists in  2019. She has trained as Obstetrician and Gynaecolgist from Grant government medical college and Sir J J group of Hospitals, Mumbai. She has trained and worked in fertility in India and Homerton fertility centre, London.
She is involved in assessment and evaluation of couples requiring fertility treatment. Her special interests are fertility preservation ( egg freezing), Ovulation induction for polycystic ovarian syndrome, Hycosy ( tubal patency testing).
Sonal Patel
Sonal has worked with Fertility Plus for over 5 years and for patients requiring egg donation services provides the all important role of ﬁnding the right clinic and donor.  Sonal works with the patient  and the donor clinic to co-ordinate timing of treatment and treatment plans.  With almost 20 years experience in fertility medicine in the NHS, Sonal’s experience makes egg donation seamless for Fertility Plus patients.
When not dedicating her time to the Fertility Plus patients Sonal enjoys reading, cooking and shopping.
Catherine Ferguson
Catherine graduated with Honours from The University of Edinburgh in 2014 with a degree in Adult Nursing. She worked in post-natal, early pregnancy, acute gynaecology and gynaecological oncology before undertaking a Masters in Reproductive Science and Women’s Heath from University College London in 2018. She then worked in fertility for the NHS for 3 years before joining Fertility Plus in early 2021 as the practice’s Lead Nurse.
Aga Rabout
Having worked in fertility since 2007 and with Mr Gudi and Mr Shah since 2011, Aga runs the business administration team at Fertility Plus and is ultimately responsible for making it all happen. From dealing with patient enquiries, managing diaries, letters and invoicing, Aga ensures that the entire Fertility Plus experience is smooth running.
When not looking after Mr Gudi and Mr Shah, Aga enjoys a busy life with her young family.
Share this page:
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Send us a message
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.