URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/fees/

IVF, ICSI Treatment Cost - Fertility Plus - Harley Street Fertility Clinic
Our packages and pricing...
Unlike most fertility clinics that operate an “open wallet” policy, we offer fixed price packages on all our treatments, so you won’t be surprised by any hidden costs along the way.  Our prices are as follows:
Initial Investigations
Initial consultation (up to 45 mins)
Mr Amit Shah: £450, Mr Anil Gudi: £450, Dr. Nisha Thakre: £350
Follow up consultation and any subsequent appointments thereafter (up to 30) mins)
£275
3D Ultrasound scan baseline assessment (up to 30 mins)
£330
HYCOSY scan for tubal assessment (up to 45 mins)
£550
HYCOSY scan for tubal assessment under sedation (up to 45 mins)
£1320
Initial Egg Count Package (paid in advance)
£495
AMH blood test (Anti Mullerian Hormone -Egg Count Test) to be carried out at least 3 days before initial consultation
Initial consultation (up to 45 Minutes appointment) including 3D Ultrasound scan for egg count (Antral Follicle Count) and review of the results
Initial Couples Fertility Assessment Package (paid in advance)
£715
Includes:  Initial consultation with Consultant Fertility Specialist, 3D ultrasound egg count scan, AMH (ovarian reserve) blood test, sperm test, results review.
AMH test to be carried out at least 3 days prior to consultation, sperm test arranged and booked a minimum of 1 week before initial consultation
Male Fertility Test (paid in advance)
£550
Includes:  Initial consultation with Consultant Fertility Specialist, sperm test, results review.
Treatment packages
Natural Cycle tracking package (up to 2 scans with the fertility nurse)
£715
Includes: up to 2 ultrasound scans & 1 blood tests.  If any medications are required or further blood tests there will be additional charges (including delivery).
Please note this is for one cycle only.
Natural IUI (Intra Uterine Insemination of sperm) package
£1850 (single IUI)
Includes: monitoring scans, advice, sperm preparation and insemination, beta-hcG blood test for pregnancy detection, first pregnancy scan at 6-7 weeks.
Excludes sedation charges (if necessary) and
donor sperm procurement.  After positive pregnancy test, any additional medications are not part of the treatment package and are payable by the patient.
Stimulated IUI (Intra Uterine Insemination of sperm) package (Includes FSH injection up to 900IU dosage)
£2150 (single IUI)
Includes: Basic medications , monitoring scans, advice, sperm preparation and insemination, beta-hcG blood test for pregnancy detection, first pregnancy scan at 6-7 weeks.
Excludes sedation charges (if required), donor sperm procurement (if required), additional medications (if required).  After positive pregnancy test, any additional medications are not part of the treatment package and are payable by the patient.
IVF and ICSI treatment packages
Initial assessments and screening tests are charged separately
Comprehensive IVF incl. ICSI
£14995
Significantly improves success rates when compared to conventional approach
Includes:  In-treatment basic medications, scans, blood tests, egg collection with sedation, HFEA fees, laboratory work for ICSI, elective freezing of embryos and storage for one year  (no fresh embryo transfer) and one frozen embryo replacement process included.
Excludes:  Further annual storage costs (invoiced directly by Care Fertility).  After positive pregnancy test, any additional medications are not part of the treatment package and are payable by the patient.
Conventional IVF incl. ICSI
£13750
Traditional approach
Includes:  In-treatment basic medications, scans, blood tests, egg collection with sedation, HFEA fees, laboratory work for ICSI, fresh embryo transfer included.
Excludes: Freezing of any suitable spare embryo and annual storage costs (invoiced directly by Care Fertility).  After positive pregnancy test, any additional medications are not part of the treatment package and are payable by the patient.
Frozen Embryo Replacement (FER)
£3300
Less expensive when compared to further fresh treatment cycle- excellent outcomes where good quality spare embryos were frozen in a fresh IVF/ICSI cycle
Includes:  In-treatment basic medications, ultrasound scans, blood tests, HFEA fees, laboratory work for FER and embryo transfer.
Excludes:  Sedation charges (if required).
Egg Freezing
Rapidly evolving technique for patients wishing to preserve their fertility by storing their eggs
Egg Freezing Package
£6995
Includes initial appointment, egg count (AMH) blood test and 3D scan for egg count (AFC) with in treatment basic medications, scans, blood tests, egg collection with sedation –
Yearly storage costs will be payable separately
3 Cycle Egg Freezing Package
£18700
Includes initial appointment, egg count (AMH) blood test and 3D scan for egg count (AFC) with in treatment basic medications, scans, blood tests, egg collection with sedation
Yearly storage costs will be payable separately
Thawing of frozen eggs and fertilisation with ICSI and embryo transfer
£6600
Additional costs for Embryo Screening (PGS) as per the pricelist, if requested
Thawing of frozen eggs, fertilisation with ICSI, freezing of good embryos and frozen embryo transfer
£9350
Additional costs for Embryo Screening (PGS) as per the pricelist, if requested.
Embryo Freezing
Embryo freezing is a procedure that allows to store embryos for later use.
One Cycle with IVF incl. ICSI
£11995
In-treatment basic medications, ultrasound scans, blood tests, egg collection with sedation, laboratory work for ICSI, elective freezing of embryos and storage for one year.
Excludes:  Further annual storage costs (invoiced directly by Care Fertility), frozen embryo transfer at later date.
Embryo Screening (PGS-Pre Implantation Genetic screening)
Cutting edge technology to improve the success of IVF/ICSI- embryo biopsy is the right way forward
Prior to biopsy you are required to have:
Preimplantation Genetic Testing for Aneuploidies (PGT-A)Set-up charge:
£990.00
(mandatory, charged regardless of the number of embryos biopsied)
Single embryo biopsy:
£330.00
per embryo in addition to set up fee
Please note that the Karyotype Chromosome Pre-embryo Screening blood tests and Genetic Counselling sessions are not mandatory. However, you may be asked to undergo the tests and Genetic Counselling (at additional cost ), if required by the consultant.
If biopsy needs to be repeated, the cost will be £300 per embryo biopsied in addition to the earlier charge and Care Fertility Genetic laboratory charges
Additional Tests
Endometrial Trio: Emma/ERA and Alice
£1925
Includes medications, scans, biopsy and testing.
If procedure abandoned before the biopsy costs will be £400 for medications and ultrasound scans
Repeat tests after treatment of infection or endometrial health will be charged.
Endometrial Trio under anaesthesia: Emma/ERA and Alice
£2530
Includes medications, anaesthesia, surgical procedure, Covid test, if needed.
If procedure abandoned before the biopsy costs will be £400 for medications and ultrasound scans
Repeat tests after treatment of infection or endometrial health will be charged.
Counselling
Essential and integral part of fertility treatments
Up to 2 sessions of supportive counselling for any fertility treatments
free of charge
Implications counselling for donor treatments
£100
Additional charges
Annual storage fees for Eggs, Sperm and Embryos
£425 (Payable directly to Care Fertility and subject to the current Care Fertility price list)
Donor sperm at London Sperm Bank
Cost of donor sperm per ampule may vary; depending on which donor bank is used.
Learn more.
Assisted hatching
£440
Ovarian cyst aspiration
£1650
Mock embryo transfer and Endometrial scratch
£330
Surgical Sperm Retrieval
Price available upon request
This is charged by Care Fertility directly, please refer to Care Fertility for pricing.
Copy of Medical records
£55
Transfer of Sperm, Eggs and Embryos within UK
as per Care Fertility and courier charges
Sedation
£440
Medications
Fostimon 150 IU vial
Price available upon request
Fostimon 75 IU vial
Price available upon request
Suprecur 5.5ml
Price available upon request
Fermadel
Price available upon request
Ovaleap 300iu
Price available upon request
Ovaleap 450iu
Price available upon request
Ovaleap 900iu
Price available upon request
Meriofert 75iu
Price available upon request
Meriofert 150iu
Price available upon request
Ovitrelle 200mcg
Price available upon request
Gonasi 5000
Price available upon request
Lubion 25 (Subcutaneous progesterone)
Price available upon request
A delivery charge is applied when medications are ordered outside the fixed price treatment packages.
Laboratory tests charges
TDL (The Doctor’s Laboratory) charge a phlebotomy charge of £60 for all blood investigations. Please note that patients cannot undergo any tests without first having a consultation.
Female infertility profile FSH, LH, Estradiol, AMH, Prolactin
Price available upon request
Female infection screen FBC, HIV1&2, HepB core, HepBs Ag, Rubella ,HepC Abs
Price available upon request
Male infection screen HIV1&2, HepBs Ag, HepB core, HepC Abs
Price available upon request
Chlamydia (urine)
Price available upon request
Chlamydia/Gonorrhoea (fast results)
Price available upon request
Anti-mullerian Hormone (AMH)
Price available upon request
Beta HCG
Price available upon request
Oestradiol
Price available upon request
Progesterone
Price available upon request
Chromosome blood test
Price available upon request
CMV (IgG/IgM) antibodies (if required)
Price available upon request
Semen Assessment
Price available upon request
Share this page:
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Send us a message
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.