URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/services/cycle-monitoring/letrozole-monitoring/

Letrozole Infertility Therapy & Monitoring - Fertility Plus - Harley Street Fertility Clinic
Cycle Monitoring
Select Service
Fertility Assessment
Couples Fertility Test
Female Fertility Testing
3D/4D Ovarian Reserve Testing Assessment
Ovarian Reserve Testing
HyCoSy
Fallopian Tube Testing
Male Fertility Test
Hormone Blood Test
Cycle Monitoring
Clomid & Monitoring
FSH & Monitoring
Letrozole & Monitoring
Natural Cycle Monitoring
Ovulation Induction, Monitoring & Test
Tamoxifen & Monitoring
IVF & ICSI
What is IVF & ICSI?
IVF & ICSI Treatment Step
IVF/ICSI Additional Procedures
IVF/ICSI Risks
IVF/ICSI Treatment Locations
IVF/ICSI Treatment Preparation
IVF/ICSI Treatment Protocol
IUI
What is IUI Treatment?
IUI Success Rates
IUI risks
Natural vs Stimulated IUI
IUI FAQS
Additional Tests
Endometrium tests  (ERA/EMMA and ALICE)
Fertility Preservation
Sperm Freezing
Egg Freezing
Embryo Screening
Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis
Pre-implantation Genetic Screening
Embryo Freezing
Embryo Freezing
Endometriosis & PCOS
PCOS Management
Endometriosis Treatment & Management
Donor Treatments
Donor Sperm Treatment
Donor Egg Treatment
Surrogacy
Instituto Bernabéu, Spain
Letrozole & Monitoring
Letrozole is an aromatase inhibitor is licensed for other treatments and has been shown to be better than Clomid for
ovulation induction
. Compared with
Clomid medication
, Letrozole produces both higher pregnancy rates and fewer side effects. Importantly, Letrozole also rarely stimulates more than one follicle, decreasing the risk of multiple gestations.
It is administered at a dosage of 2.5 mg to 7.5 mg from day 2 to 4 of the period and monitored with ultrasound scans to check for ovulation.
What Does Letrozole Do To Your Body?
Letrozole is a type of medication known as an aromatase inhibitor. It works by reducing the amount of oestrogen produced in the body. By doing so, Letrozole can stimulate the ovaries to release egg during a cycle, potentially increasing the chances of conception.
What Does Letrozole Do For Fertility?
In the context of fertility, Letrozole helps in inducing ovulation. For women with ovulatory disorders, such as those with
polycystic ovary syndrome
(PCOS), Letrozole can be an effective alternative to Clomid. It helps in maturing and releasing the eggs, thus facilitating conception.
Who Is Letrozole Suitable For?
Letrozole is primarily recommended for women who:
Have ovulatory disorders, like PCOS.
Have not responded well to other ovulation-inducing drugs.
Women with irregular cycles.
How To Take Letrozole For Fertility
Begin taking Letrozole on the second, third, or fourth day of your menstrual cycle, as advised by your
fertility specialist
.
Usually, the starting dose is 2.5mg, which can be adjusted based on your response.
Continue to take the prescribed dose once daily as directed.
Attend regular monitoring appointments for ultrasounds to track follicle development and ascertain the ideal time for intercourse or intrauterine insemination (
IUI
).
Take note of any side effects and report them to your doctor.
How Many Cycles Of Letrozole Does It Take To Get Pregnant?
The number of cycles needed varies from person to person. Some may conceive during their first cycle of Letrozole, while others might require several cycles. Ovulation induction with letrozole is usually recommended for 6 cycles.
How Do You Know If Letrozole Is Working?
The primary indicator that Letrozole is working is ovulation. Regular ultrasounds and monitoring can show follicle growth and ovulation. Blood tests measuring progesterone levels, typically done a week after the expected ovulation, can also confirm if ovulation occurred.
Risks And Side Effects Of Letrozole
This drug is not licensed for ovulation induction in the UK. We can offer this drug in specific cases where it may improve the chances of pregnancy and the unproven risks are accepted.
Many physicians will not prescribe Letrozole because of concerns from a 2005 report from some Canadian fertility doctors, suggesting a possible higher incidence of birth defects in pregnancies from using Letrozole. This study was from a small group of pregnancies and the study has been severely criticised for having an improper design.
The manufacturer of the drug has apparently not filed for FDA approval to use for subfertility. However, physicians often use medications in an “off label or non-licensed ” way. The off label use is safe, effective and perfectly legitimate.
In a new study, Dr. Tulandi and Dr. Robert Casper from the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of Toronto examined a total of 911 babies whose mothers were treated for subfertility with either Letrozole or Clomid from 2001 to 2005 and found it to be safe.
We do not suggest a patient is given Letrozole for longer than 6 months.
For further information regarding cycle monitoring please download our leaflet
here
.
Can Letrozole Cause Birth Defects?
Current research suggests that Letrozole does not increase the risk of major birth defects. However, it’s crucial to consult with your fertility doctors about any potential risks and benefits.
How Long Does It Take For Letrozole Side Effects To Start?
Side effects can start as early as a few hours after the first dose and may include symptoms such as hot flashes, headaches, and nausea. Most side effects are mild and tend to diminish as your body adjusts to the medication.
Share this page:
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Send us a message
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.