URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/services/ivf-icsi/ivficsi-additional-procedures/

IVF & ICSI Add-Ons – Additional IVF Services - Fertility Plus
IVF & ICSI
Select Service
Fertility Assessment
Couples Fertility Test
Female Fertility Testing
3D/4D Ovarian Reserve Testing Assessment
Ovarian Reserve Testing
HyCoSy
Fallopian Tube Testing
Male Fertility Test
Hormone Blood Test
Cycle Monitoring
Clomid & Monitoring
FSH & Monitoring
Letrozole & Monitoring
Natural Cycle Monitoring
Ovulation Induction, Monitoring & Test
Tamoxifen & Monitoring
IVF & ICSI
What is IVF & ICSI?
IVF & ICSI Treatment Step
IVF/ICSI Additional Procedures
IVF/ICSI Risks
IVF/ICSI Treatment Locations
IVF/ICSI Treatment Preparation
IVF/ICSI Treatment Protocol
IUI
What is IUI Treatment?
IUI Success Rates
IUI risks
Natural vs Stimulated IUI
IUI FAQS
Additional Tests
Endometrium tests  (ERA/EMMA and ALICE)
Fertility Preservation
Sperm Freezing
Egg Freezing
Embryo Screening
Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis
Pre-implantation Genetic Screening
Embryo Freezing
Embryo Freezing
Endometriosis & PCOS
PCOS Management
Endometriosis Treatment & Management
Donor Treatments
Donor Sperm Treatment
Donor Egg Treatment
Surrogacy
Instituto Bernabéu, Spain
IVF/ICSI Additional Procedures
What Are IVF Add-Ons?
IVF treatment
add-ons are additional procedures that are not part of the routine stimulation cycle. These are medications or supplements which can be added during the stimulation all during the process of transfer of embryos. These add-ons vary from using medications to procedures on embryos and the endometrium. The commonly used IVF add-ons are steroids, clexane, screening of embryos, endometrial tests, immunotherapy and immune testing, growth hormone and many other such additions.
Additional IVF & ICSI Procedures
There are a number of add-ons that can be used in conjunction with IVF, they are often credited as being able to increase IVF success rates, but some do not fulfil the requirements of adequate research. Others have reasonable evidence but have not been fully accepted as the mainstay of the IVF process.
The most talked-about IVF add-ons are:
assisted hatching
genetic screening of embryos
use of injectable progesterone
freeze all protocols (where all blastocysts are frozen)
endometrial receptivity assay
Embryo Freezing
Surplus embryos may be frozen after
IVF treatment
for use at a later date to create more siblings, or if the treatment cycle was unsuccessful.
Frozen embryos have a similar or better success rate than fresh embryos in our care for younger patients.
Frozen embryo replacement cycles show less asynchrony of the endometrium (lining of the womb).
Success rates increase from 10 to 15% or more compared to aggressive stimulation.
Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (with life-threatening risks) is almost completely prevented.
IVF cycles have a much higher success rate.
Embryos are frozen in the ‘freeze all’ protocol (this is where all good quality blastocysts are frozen) or when additional embryos are present.
Embryo freezing
is carried out by vitrification which is fast freezing. Embryos are usually frozen on day five when they reach the blastocyst stage.
Embryos that reach a blastocyst stage have been through accelerated growth and have between 100 to 150 cells. These embryos can thaw better and have a much better chance of survival. Embryos are also frozen on day three, though their survival rates are lower than those embryos frozen at the blastocyst stage.
Frozen embryos carry similar pregnancy rates as fresh embryos and in many clinics are the preferred option. There is around a 1 to 2% risk that embryos may not survive the freezing process and may not thaw.
Is It Better To Freeze Eggs Or Embryos?
Eggs and embryos can both be frozen.
Eggs are single cells that need to be frozen and then thawed to survive. Eggs that have undergone
egg freezing
have a lower survival rate and have to be converted to embryos before they can be implanted. Frozen eggs also will have a lower chance of pregnancy.
Embryos that are frozen at a blastocyst stage have between 100 -150 cells and survive the freezing process better. The success rate of frozen embryos is similar to fresh embryos and often is a chosen mechanism.
How Do Embryos Survive The Freezing Process?
Embryos are frozen at a very low temperature by vitrification. On thawing to trigger the process of growth is initiated again and embryos start to expand and begin growing again. A small number of embryos failed to survive and expand and will need to be discarded.
Blastocyst Culture
A blastocyst is a term given to an embryo that has been growing for 4-6 days. In nature, embryos implant at the blastocyst stage and thus the transfer of blastocyst embryos has an increased chance of implantation.
We aim to perform a blastocysts culture for all patients, though sometimes we may need to transfer or freeze embryos earlier if there are fewer embryos of less good quality
We feel that every effort should be made to improve the chances of pregnancy therefore there is no additional charge for blastocyst culture.
What Is The Blastocyst Culture Procedure?
Blastocyst culture is when embryos a grown-up to day five or day six when cells become between 100 to 150 cells and contain differentiated cells.
Assisted Hatching
Assisted hatching is believed to be associated with an increased pregnancy rate in selected patients. This technique involves the creation of a small hole in the embryo shell (zona) with a laser, or the use of a chemical process which thins and weakens the zona, just before the embryo is transferred into the womb.
It is useful for women whose embryos have been identified as having a zona that appears particularly thick, or is suspected of being harder than normal. This enables the embryo to hatch out and may help implantation. There is very little evidence that assisted hatching will improve pregnancy rates.
Assisted hatching is a procedure by which the outer surface which is the trophoectoderm ectoderm of the embryo is fractured. The aim of assisted hatching is that it allows the embryo to hatch more easily and aids implantation. Assisted hatching can be done mechanically with a needle or with a laser.
Is Assisted Hatching Necessary?
At Fertility Plus, we practice evidence-based medicine, there is very little evidence that assisted conception aids IVF implantation. There have been various studies and the evidence to support is very limited.
Does Assisted Hatching Make Implantation Faster?
There is very little evidence that assisted conception aids IVF implantation speed. There have been various studies and the evidence is very limited.
Does Assisted Hatching Improve IVF Implantation Rates?
There is very little evidence that assisted conception aids IVF implantation. There have been various studies and the evidence is very limited.
How Will I Know If I Need An Additional Procedure?
This will be discussed with your fertility specialist. There are certain add-ons which do not fulfil the requirements of adequate research. There are other add-ons which have reasonable evidence but have not yet been accepted as the mainstay of assisted conception. The common add-ons which are used extensively and where evidence is being collected are:
Genetic screening of embryos
Use of injectable progesterone
Freeze all protocols
Endometrial receptivity assay
Share this page:
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Send us a message
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.