URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/services/embryo-freezing/embryo-freezing/

Embryo Freezing by Vitrification - Fertility Plus - Harley Street Fertility Clinic
Embryo Freezing
Select Service
Fertility Assessment
Couples Fertility Test
Female Fertility Testing
3D/4D Ovarian Reserve Testing Assessment
Ovarian Reserve Testing
HyCoSy
Fallopian Tube Testing
Male Fertility Test
Hormone Blood Test
Cycle Monitoring
Clomid & Monitoring
FSH & Monitoring
Letrozole & Monitoring
Natural Cycle Monitoring
Ovulation Induction, Monitoring & Test
Tamoxifen & Monitoring
IVF & ICSI
What is IVF & ICSI?
IVF & ICSI Treatment Step
IVF/ICSI Additional Procedures
IVF/ICSI Risks
IVF/ICSI Treatment Locations
IVF/ICSI Treatment Preparation
IVF/ICSI Treatment Protocol
IUI
What is IUI Treatment?
IUI Success Rates
IUI risks
Natural vs Stimulated IUI
IUI FAQS
Additional Tests
Endometrium tests  (ERA/EMMA and ALICE)
Fertility Preservation
Sperm Freezing
Egg Freezing
Embryo Screening
Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis
Pre-implantation Genetic Screening
Embryo Freezing
Embryo Freezing
Endometriosis & PCOS
PCOS Management
Endometriosis Treatment & Management
Donor Treatments
Donor Sperm Treatment
Donor Egg Treatment
Surrogacy
Instituto Bernabéu, Spain
Embryo Freezing
Once the
IVF/ ICSI treatments
have generated the necessary number and quality of embryos for implantation, instead of conventional fresh embryo transfer, one can freeze the embryos by vitrification at appropriate stage of development and transfer them at a later date to improve the implantation rate of embryos.
Contrary to the old beliefs, frozen embryos survival rate after vitrification and thaw is over 90%. The success rates are also up to 20% higher in our experience, depending on patient age and circumstances. There is no evidence to show that this makes it more unsafe for embryos or babies born out of frozen embryos treatments, which is reassuring.
The reason why this approach works well may be because the uterus is more likely to accept embryos when the estrogen levels and progesterone levels are not high, there is no surgery and anaesthetics for egg collection procedure and possibly physically and mentally it is a much calmer situation for the patient.
We very much prefer this strategy as it achieves significantly higher live birth rates in our hands.
For more information on embryo freezing and a frozen embryo replacement cycle, please download our leaflet
here
.
Share this page:
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Send us a message
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.