URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/services/fertility-assessment/hycosy/

HyCoSy - Fertility Plus - Harley Street Fertility Clinic
Fertility Assessment
Select Service
Fertility Assessment
Couples Fertility Test
Female Fertility Testing
3D/4D Ovarian Reserve Testing Assessment
Ovarian Reserve Testing
HyCoSy
Fallopian Tube Testing
Male Fertility Test
Hormone Blood Test
Cycle Monitoring
Clomid & Monitoring
FSH & Monitoring
Letrozole & Monitoring
Natural Cycle Monitoring
Ovulation Induction, Monitoring & Test
Tamoxifen & Monitoring
IVF & ICSI
What is IVF & ICSI?
IVF & ICSI Treatment Step
IVF/ICSI Additional Procedures
IVF/ICSI Risks
IVF/ICSI Treatment Locations
IVF/ICSI Treatment Preparation
IVF/ICSI Treatment Protocol
IUI
What is IUI Treatment?
IUI Success Rates
IUI risks
Natural vs Stimulated IUI
IUI FAQS
Additional Tests
Endometrium tests  (ERA/EMMA and ALICE)
Fertility Preservation
Sperm Freezing
Egg Freezing
Embryo Screening
Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis
Pre-implantation Genetic Screening
Embryo Freezing
Embryo Freezing
Endometriosis & PCOS
PCOS Management
Endometriosis Treatment & Management
Donor Treatments
Donor Sperm Treatment
Donor Egg Treatment
Surrogacy
Instituto Bernabéu, Spain
HyCoSy
HyCoSy is a hystero-salpingo contrast sonography to check the uterine cavity and the patency of the Fallopian tube.
Aqua scan (saline infusion sonography) is an ultrasound examination of the uterine cavity to exclude any pathologies such as fibroids, polyps or abnormalities in the uterine cavity.
When is it done?
It is usually done between day six and day 12 of your cycle (when you have stopped bleeding) and before ovulation occurs. The reason is to avoid the chance of being pregnant at the time of the procedure.
The HyCoSy procedure
You must have an empty bladder prior to the procedure. You will be asked to lie down on the examination couch and a speculum is inserted into the vagina and a thin catheter is fed into the opening of the cervix. A vaginal ultrasound probe is inserted and sterile fluid is injected into the cavity to examine the cavity (aqua scan). This part of the examination is called a saline infusion, sonohysterography or hydrosonohysterography. Following this, a contrast medium is injected into the catheter. The solution is used to examine whether the Fallopian tubes are patent (open or blocked). If the examination of the tubes is carried out, the whole procedure is called a hystero-contrast sonography, HyCoSy. You may experience some cramps and discomfort at this point when the dye is injected.
The procedure takes about ten to 15 minutes and does not require anaesthesia. If you feel that speculum examinations are very painful, then this procedure can be done under general anaesthesia or sedation and this would be subject to additional costs.
The ultrasound scan is a 3D scan of the womb, its lining, endometrium and the ovaries, reviewing the antral follicular count (the egg reserve).
After the procedure you will be asked to remain for about ten to 15 minutes in the waiting room to ensure you do not have any reactions to the contrast and are safe to go home. It is advisable that somebody accompany you to the clinic to drive you home in case you feel unwell after the procedure, and also so that you can rest at home for a few hours. You should be able to return to work on the same day. The dye may cause some spotting, so sanitary towels may be needed. Do not use tampons, as this may increase the risk of any infection.
When will the results be available?
After the procedure all the results including the antral follicular count and the tubal test will be discussed alongside the next plan for treatment.
Are the any side effects of the HyCoSy procedure?
You may experience cramping and abdominal pains following the procedure, and there is the possibility of light bleeding following the examination. This should stop within 24 to 48 hours, if the pain continues more than 48 hours, please contact us.
What are the risks of the HyCoSy procedure?
It is possible that infection maybe develop after the procedure and could be apparent days later but this is very rare. If you develop any symptoms of fever, foul smelling discharge and pain, please contact us as soon as possible. In those cases we may do a swab and give you antibiotics. We routinely give Azithromycin one gram as a single dose after the procedure.
Important information
Please abstain from sexual intercourse from the first day of your period until after the procedure. This is to prevent any chance of pregnancy before having the procedure. It is very important to have the chlamydia test before having the procedure to ensure that the infection is not present in the cervix which can be introduced into the womb and then into the tubes.
Please inform us if you have any known allergies to contrasts/shellfish or iodine before the procedure. You may get a mild reaction which will make you feel a bit faint or have abdominal pain.
Costs
The cost of the procedure will be available on enquiry.
Share this page:
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Send us a message
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.