URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/services/additional-tests/endometrium-tests-era-emma-and-alice/

Endometrium tests  (ERA/EMMA and ALICE) - Fertility Plus - Harley Street Fertility Clinic
Endometrium tests  (ERA/EMMA and ALICE)
The endometrium plays a critical role in implantation.  Recurrent implantation failure is one of the  most challenging clinical conditions encountered.  Whilst extensive advances have been taken place with regard to the embryo, limited details are available in the study of the endometrium.
Now 3 tests are available to give more information about the endometrium and can be applied to the preparation before a frozen embryo replacement; Igenomix offers 3 tests which give us more information and can be used before the frozen embryo replacement cycle
How are endometrium tests carried out?
A mock hormone preparation is carried out with estrogen tablets or patches for 10-14 days . Progesterone is started and approximately 120 ± hrs later an endometrial biopsy (Biopsy of the lining )  is taken and the sample is sent for testing
The results tell us about the timing of embryo transfer for the next treatment, endometrial health and endometrial infection
If there are any interventions needled to improve endometrial health or treat infections, the treatment will need to be carried out and a repeat sample is taken which will be charged.
Complications of the endometrium tests
The procedure can be painful in same cases and anaesthesia is needed.
There is a small risk of infection and uterine trauma
Sometimes the sample is inadequate or not able to be processed and another sample may need to be carried out.
These tests have limitations and do not guarantee a pregnancy.
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Send us a message
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.