URL: https://www.fertilityplus.org.uk/services/iui/iui-faqs/

IUI FAQS - Fertility Plus - Harley Street Fertility Clinic
IUI
Select Service
Fertility Assessment
Couples Fertility Test
Female Fertility Testing
3D/4D Ovarian Reserve Testing Assessment
Ovarian Reserve Testing
HyCoSy
Fallopian Tube Testing
Male Fertility Test
Hormone Blood Test
Cycle Monitoring
Clomid & Monitoring
FSH & Monitoring
Letrozole & Monitoring
Natural Cycle Monitoring
Ovulation Induction, Monitoring & Test
Tamoxifen & Monitoring
IVF & ICSI
What is IVF & ICSI?
IVF & ICSI Treatment Step
IVF/ICSI Additional Procedures
IVF/ICSI Risks
IVF/ICSI Treatment Locations
IVF/ICSI Treatment Preparation
IVF/ICSI Treatment Protocol
IUI
What is IUI Treatment?
IUI Success Rates
IUI risks
Natural vs Stimulated IUI
IUI FAQS
Additional Tests
Endometrium tests  (ERA/EMMA and ALICE)
Fertility Preservation
Sperm Freezing
Egg Freezing
Embryo Screening
Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis
Pre-implantation Genetic Screening
Embryo Freezing
Embryo Freezing
Endometriosis & PCOS
PCOS Management
Endometriosis Treatment & Management
Donor Treatments
Donor Sperm Treatment
Donor Egg Treatment
Surrogacy
Instituto Bernabéu, Spain
IUI FAQS
How many cycles of IUI are advised and what is the success?
Studies suggest that between two and three cycles of IUI achieve the best chance of success, and if after three cycles of IUI a pregnancy does not occur, then it’s much better to proceed with treatment with other forms of assisted conception.
Successive cycles can be tried, especially if the ovary does not contain any cysts and the ovarian response is very good, and success rates seem to be much better.
It is essential that the body mass index, the height and weight calculation should be less than 35 to be eligible for IUI treatment.
The success rates of IUI range between 10 and 15 per cent in cycles and they seem to be highest using stimulated techniques.  The success rates are lower in women over the age of 38 ranging from 5-8% One of the major complications of stimulated IUI is that it increases the chance of multiple pregnancies. After six cycles of IUI, the chances of pregnancy tend to decrease and thus the evidence does suggest that the maximum chance of pregnancy seems to happen in the first three cycles.
What is the minimum quantity of sperm needed for IUI
IUI also gives us better evidence about the quality of sperm to a certain extent, and if the washed prepared  sample of sperm  more than five million sperm, the chances of pregnancy are certainly much better and IUI may be an appropriate treatment.
If the washed  sample shows a very low level of motile sperm, then IVF is a much better treatment option. Success rates are also affected by age and over the age of 37, chances of pregnancy start declining, and over the age of 40, chances of pregnancy are significantly lower.
How are medications given?
Oral agents can be given from day two of the period to day six of the period, and these could be in the form of Clomiphene or Letrozole. The aim of these drugs is to generate and to release FSH and generate the follicles from growing. A significant number of women would ovulate with this dose and sometimes this treatment does not work and ovulation does not occur, and alternatives have to be sought either by extending the dose of these tablets in some cases or moving to a more successfully outcome which is gonadotropins.
Gonadotropins are injections and these contain FSH and they come in various forms under Meriofert, Fostimon, Gonal F and Benfola. Their primary aim is to increase the level of FSH which is the follicle stimulating hormone, and start pushing the follicles towards ovulation. These are again started by a scan on day two of the period on a planned date and usually a scan is booked between day seven and day ten to assess whether follicular growth is happening.
When the pregnancy test is done?
Results following the insemination – we would ask you to wait between 12 and 14 days to find out if the treatment has been successful. This wait is extremely anxious and after two weeks we will be able to review the results. If the test is positive , a scan is booked in 3 weeks. If unfortunately the test is negative, an appointment will be offered to discuss the next options.
Share this page:
Request a call back...
Submit
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.
2025 © Fertility Plus. All Rights Reserved.
Search Fertility Plus...
Search
Send us a message
Send
Thank you, we will contact you shortly.
Please complete all the fields.
Please enter a valid email address.
There was a problem submitting the form, please try again.